Let's talk a little bit about the question of our contractors a long term solution.
I bring this up.
Because a lot of you are taking this course and I'm promoting the benefits of contracting out your first
version of your product and I'm kind of presenting it as if it's this obvious choice.
I believe that at the beginning of your business it is the obvious choice that has so many benefits
to you.
The founder from equity from the leverage are going to have when you go to recruit technical founders
to the terms you're in to get an investment even the amount of time and effort you're going to put up
front and essentially the efficiency of your time at the very beginning.
But then there is a question of Is this something that that essentially stays ripe forever.
Should you always stick with contractors.
The answer to this is it depends.
That's the short answer.
It depends on a lot of things.
It depends how serious you are about your company it depends how big your company is growing.
Let's imagine someone who is building a lifestyle business.
You want to make a basic web application that's going to bring you $5000 a month.
In that case do you even need to bring on someone to your team five dollars a month is not a huge hurdle
to hit especially if you're devoting a lot of time and effort towards it.
In that case then honestly this is that business is something that could be run by contractors essentially
in perpetuity forever.
If that's the case you want to build a small business you don't plan to turn it into a Google.
I definitely think that as long as you establish good ongoing relationships with your contractors there's
absolutely no reason why you would need to switch to in-house development if you're trying to build
a company that is going to grow and grow and grow and you're trying to take this rocket ship to the
moon so to speak.
It's a different question.
And typically when I was giving advice to start ups when I was in venture capital what I would tell
them is the most effective way of starting your business is you start with contracting as the company
starts accelerating your needs will start to change contacting has an inherent cost advantage to it.
But it also has an inherent efficiency disadvantage to it when you're contracting out.
That means that that person is not integrated into your core unit.
The turnaround time for example when you make changes or make additions is much slower.
Now at the beginning when you're testing out an idea and you're trying to gain kind of minimal traction
to take your business the next step is not going to matter how much time you spend writing requirements
and what the turnaround time is on a new feature.
The turnaround time on a bug is still important but it's not nearly as important when you have 200 users
versus when you have 2 million users.
As the company grows this kind of dynamic changes all of a sudden the time it takes to do things like
that becomes much more valuable and the cost advantage of contracting goes down significantly.
And that's why I generally suggest as your company progresses you do shift from contracting into in-house
development and that's the best way of taking advantage of the upfront cost advantages of contracting.
And then later taking advantage of once money is not a huge issue.
The advantages of having an in-house team someone you want sitting next to you someone who 2:00 in the
morning when something goes down you are a phone call away and they'll do it immediately.
Once your company is big you don't really want to deal with writing contracts constantly for new sections
of development.
You don't want to have to constantly deal with billing and recording time.
It's much easier to for instance an in-house developer to use them for overtime or use them as an an
on an as needed basis or as a contractor probably is going to adhere more to the 9:00 to 5:00 schedule.
Hopefully I've explained this decently well.
Bigger companies they need different things and so eventually your needs will evolve and problems that
you thought were big previously will no longer be huge issues anymore.
For instance you know paying an extra 50 percent per hour for your developer work it's not going to
be as big of a deal when you know you have a much bigger user base and a lot more money in funding and
a lot more collective effort going towards your product.
This is not completely to say that you can't go the distance with contractors.
There are a lot of big companies that keep contractors on their roster.
But typically what you'll see is it's more of a hybrid situation where they stick with contractors for
the first two years and then gradually bring in more in-house developers but they retain outside contractors
because they don't want to use what we call internal velocity.
What that basically means is your company's ability to produce new product new code make changes further
your product they don't want to take a dip in that as they switch completely from contract to in-house
developer and so they retain both then a lot of companies.
Actually I'd say the vast majority of companies will utilize contractors as well as in-house developers.
And if you followed this strategy in the course by using contractors at first that will actually set
you up to have a much stronger ongoing relationship with your contractor.
So you're not in the future trying to find efficient contractors that you have a rapport with and then
you have very strong working efficiency with the guys have any other questions just post them.
Dislikers really just kind of a reflection I want you guys to be as realistic as possible going forward.
Just knowing that the most effective startups I've seen shift from contractor to in-house or shift from
contractor to hybrid.